the Endicott College Writing Center
presents common grammar mistakes
introduction grammar in the English
language can be tricky here are a few
examples of common grammar mistakes to
remember you can easily fix these errors
while reading through your papers also
try to read your paper aloud or have a
friend read the paper aloud to you this
makes it easier to catch mistakes
run-on sentences avoid using run-on
sentences these occur when two sentences
that can stand alone are combined
without any distinguishing punctuation
conjunctions or words
here is an example of a run-on sentence
her hair was an unruly mess it was so
tangled she could not run her fingers
through it to separate the strands a way
to correct this sentence could be by
using punctuation to separate it into
two separate sentences her hair was an
unruly mess who is so tangled she could
not run her fingers through it to
separate the strands
be sure to make pronouns agree in number
and gender with the subject and verb
here's an example of a sentence with an
issue of pronoun agreement every person
has the right to voice their opinion why
is this incorrect every person refers to
a singular subject where there is
considered plural because the plurality
does not agree the sentence is not
correct
let's look at the sentence again every
person has the right to voice their
opinion the correct way to write this
sentence would be every person has the
right to voice his or her opinion
explanation using his or her instead of
their correct the sentence so that both
pronouns are singular
subject-verb agreement a verb must agree
with the subject in number and in person
but what is the subject what is a verb
the subject of the sentence is the now
person plays thing etc that is
performing the verb or the action in a
sentence the subject is the thing that
is doing something the doing is the verb
let's look at an example of a sentence
with subject verb agreement issues she
was one of the students was caught
cheating a way to correct the sentence
would be she was one of the students who
were for cheating
sentence fragments what a sentence is an
incomplete thought it is a sentence
fragment usually this occurs when a
sentence is missing either a subject or
a verb or bull
let's look at a sentence fragment after
we had cake and ice cream a way to
correct the sentence would be after we
had cake and ice cream we opened
presents
active versus passive voice use active
voice instead of passive voice this
creates more clear and concise writing
let's look at an example of passive
voice in passive voice the subject is
performed on passive voice often uses
various forms up to be for example my
homework is being eaten by my dog a
solution using active voice in active
voice the subject performs the action
the verb expresses for example my dog
eats my homework
this has been a presentation
the Endicott College Writing Center more
information on how to make an
appointment please visit our website
today